---
layout: post
title: "Update #2 - Script Writing and Funding Strategy"
subtitle: "A little update on where we are in the process of making this short film."
date: 2026-03-16
tags: [updates]
cover-img: /assets/img/posts/isle-of-pines-road.jpg
---

Hi everyone,

This is Robert. I wanted to write this to give a little update on where we are in the process of making this short film. The big thing now is that the script is in development, and we are working hard on finishing it. We are aiming for between 15–20 pages. Finding the balance between all the possibilities of where the story could go and what is absolutely necessary to tell it is always a challenge. Overall though, we have zeroed in on an outline of the story. Here is a short synopsis:
Our main character named Cole Smith arrives on the Isle of Youth in Cuba from the United States a month after the passing of his father. Setting out on a journey in a place he's never been to honor his father's last request, Cole begins searching for a suitable place to inter his father's ashes, beginning at a nearby cemetery and ending on the opposite side of the island at a fishing village where his grandfather—a man Cole never knew—may once have lived and worked. By the end of it all, Cole learns more about who he is, the truth about his family, and what is most important in life.
All of this is subject to change. But the general idea is there. Our main character embarks on a road trip into an unknown land to find the truth about his history so as to better inform his future.
Once the script is done, that will be a huge milestone and allow us to start really locking down more details about specific locations and other key elements.

--

Additionally, alongside finishing the script, we are actively seeking out ways to fund this filmmaking process all the way through post-production. Currently, there are three tactics being employed: applying for grants, raising money here on Ko-fi, and seeking out individual investors.
Because we will be filming on the Isle of Youth, this reduces the cost of production significantly, from tens of thousands of dollars to hopefully several thousand dollars. The hope then is that we can score a grant and then supplement those funds with support from Ko‑fi supporters and/or a personal investor. That is Plan A right now. That may change as things develop.
To that point, we are incredibly grateful for any help that you all can offer here on Ko-fi, no matter how small. This money helps us defray the costs of grant applications, research, travel, and many other fees incurred during the development and production of this film.
I think that wraps up this update for now. Stay tuned for more in the coming weeks. My aim is to do at least a few of these each month. Cheers! 
 
---
 
*Enjoying the journey? You can support El Pinero directly on [Ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/elpinero).*
